[DOCS] Explain requirement to create Endpoint exception (#1428)
elastic/security-docs: docs/detections/detections-ui-exceptions.asciidoc

[float]
[[endpoint-rule-exceptions]]
=== Add Elastic {endpoint-sec} exceptions

Like detection rule exceptions, you can add Endpoint agent exceptions either by editing the Elastic {endpoint-sec} rule or as an action on a generated {endpoint-sec} alert. Alerts generated from the Elastic {endpoint-sec} rule have the following fields:

* `kibana.alert.original_event.module determined:endpoint`
* `kibana.alert.original_event.kind:alert`

You can also add Endpoint exceptions to rules that are associated with Elastic Endpoint rule exceptions. To associate rules, when creating or editing a rule, select the <<rule-ui-advanced-params, Elastic Endpoint exceptions>> option.

[IMPORTANT]
=============
Exceptions added to the Elastic {endpoint-sec} rule affect all alerts sent
from the Endpoint agent. Be careful not to unintentionally prevent some Endpoint
alerts.

> Additionally, to add an Endpoint exception to the Elastic {endpoint-sec} rule, there must be at least one {endpoint-sec} alert generated in the system. For non-production use, you can trigger a test alert using malware emulation techniques or tools, such as the Anti Malware Testfile from the https://www.eicar.org/[European Institute for Computer Anti-Virus Research (EICAR)].

Author: Any thoughts on the EICAR testfile recommendation? It's mentioned in the originating [bug PR](https://github.com/elastic/kibana/issues/121475) & [issue](https://github.com/elastic/security-docs/issues/1360), but IMO it seems like a workaround for an edge case bug that we're mentioning in docs mostly just in case someone encounters it. But on the other side, it might still be a helpful testing strategy to recommend?

[float]
[[endpoint-rule-exceptions]]
=== Add Elastic {endpoint-sec} exceptions

> Like detection rule exceptions, you can add Endpoint agent exceptions either by editing the Elastic {endpoint-sec} rule or as an action on an alert generated by the {endpoint-sec} rule. Elastic {endpoint-sec} alerts have the following fields:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Like detection rule exceptions, you can add Endpoint agent exceptions either by editing Elastic {endpoint-sec} rules or by adding them as actions on alerts generated by {endpoint-sec} rules. Elastic {endpoint-sec} alerts have the following fields:
```
Not sure about this one from a product standpoint or otherwise, but my intuition was that the plural "exceptions" meant that "rule" and "action" should also be plural.

Author: I think that works for everything except "actions" -- making that plural sounds like there's more than one action available in the UI for this.

* `kibana.alert.original_event.module determined:endpoint`
* `kibana.alert.original_event.kind:alert`

> You can also add Endpoint exceptions to rules that are associated with Elastic Endpoint rule exceptions. To associate rules, when creating or editing a rule, select the <<rule-ui-advanced-params, *Elastic Endpoint exceptions*>> option.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can also add Endpoint exceptions to rules that are associated with {elastic-endpoint} rule exceptions. To associate rules, when creating or editing a rule, select the <<rule-ui-advanced-params, *{elastic-endpoint} exceptions*>> option.
```

[IMPORTANT]
=============
Exceptions added to the Elastic {endpoint-sec} rule affect all alerts sent
from the Endpoint agent. Be careful not to unintentionally prevent some Endpoint
alerts.

> Additionally, to add an Endpoint exception to the Elastic {endpoint-sec} rule, there must be at least one {endpoint-sec} alert generated in the system. For non-production use, if no alerts exist, you can trigger a test alert using malware emulation techniques or tools such as the Anti Malware Testfile from the https://www.eicar.org/[European Institute for Computer Anti-Virus Research (EICAR)].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Additionally, to add an Endpoint exception to the Elastic {endpoint-sec} rule, there must be at least one {endpoint-sec} alert generated in the system. For non-production use, if no alerts exist, you can trigger a test alert using malware emulation techniques or tools such as the https://www.eicar.org/[European Institute for Computer Anti-Virus Research (EICAR)] Anti Malware Testfile.
```

Author: We discussed this in Slack and agreed this is OK as is.

=============

> . To add an Endpoint exception from the rule details page:

Reviewer: Feel free to disregard, and maybe this is out of scope, but to my eye, this should be more like:

 1. To open the Add Endpoint Exception menu:
 **From the rule details page**
   a...
   b...
   c...
 **From the Alerts table**
   a...
   b...
   c...
 [Screenshot]
 
 2. If required, modify the conditions...

Author: Good call. I'll tinker with this...

.. Go to the rule details page (*Detect* -> *Rules*), and then search for and  select the Elastic *Security Endpoint* rule.
.. Scroll down to the *Trend* histogram and select the *Exceptions* tab.
.. Click *Add new exception* -> *Add Endpoint exception*.
. To add an exception from the Alerts table:
.. Go to *Detect* -> *Alerts*.
.. Scroll down to the Alerts table, and from an Elastic Security Endpoint
alert, click the *More actions* button (*...*), then select *Add Endpoint exception*.
+
. The *Add Endpoint Exception* window opens, from either the rule details page or the Alerts table.
+
[role="screenshot"]
image::images/endpoint-add-exp.png[]
. If required, modify the conditions.
+
NOTE: See <<ex-nested-conditions>> for more information on when nested conditions are required.

. You can select any of the following:

* *Close this alert*: Closes the alert when the exception is added. This option
is only available when adding exceptions from the Alerts table.
* *Close all alerts that match this exception and were generated by this rule*:
Closes all alerts that match the exception's conditions.

> . Click *Add Endpoint Exception*. An exception is created for both the detection rule and the Elastic Endpoint agent.

Reviewer 2: I _think_ it's the Elastic Endpoint we are referring to instead of the agent - @kevinlog can you confirm? 

```suggestion
. Click *Add Endpoint Exception*. An exception is created for both the detection rule and the {elastic-endpoint}.
```

Reviewer 3: @jmikell821 that is correct.  Endpoint Exceptions are for Endpoints specifically.
